All right, good morning everybody.
Nice to see you all.
Why don't you join with me as we just pray to start.
So Father God, I'll be listening this time to you.
We'll thank you that we can come together to learn more about you, to learn more about your word, Lord.
I pray that what we look at today wouldn't just be in our heads, that it would fall down to our hearts, Lord, that you would connect with each one of us afresh this morning.
Lord, anything that is of you, let that remain,
Anything that's not for you, that they'll just be lost.
I'm blown away by the wind.
In Jesus' name.
Amen.
Right, so, as you will hopefully know, most of you will know, we have been looking at this theme of pray the Jesus way since about September, and we're looking at the Lord's prayer, and there's that wonderful thing that we've been working it through line by line, and you know each line as it's gonna come, right?
And when it was announced, I kind of going through them and thinking, oh, okay, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, that's gonna be, that's gonna be a toughy, that's gonna be fun, I can't wait to hear what, Wendy or Pete or Nikki or Matt,
has to say on that, that'll be great, wouldn't it?
So I'd like to introduce now.
But yeah, because God has a sense of humour, here we are.
But so I'm going to start today with a question.
And my question is this.
Have you ever met somebody, one of those people, who cannot accept something just because they're told it?
They have to try it for themselves.
There's one great hand at the back here, just waving wildly, I love that.
Yeah, it's that thing that you see the wet paint sign and you have to touch it to check that it's wet.
Or they deliver the food at the restaurant and they say, mind out, the plate is hot.
And you go, and you have to touch the plate and go, oh, that's a hot plate.
People who, whenever you see a button that says, do not press, just have to press it.
Well, I'm one of those people.
And I know it's so annoying.
I'm told by the people who love me that it's so annoying.
But I am one of those people.
And I inherited it from my dad.
I'm going to tell you this little story.
We went to Turkey when I was about six years old and this wasn't like fancy turkey teeth glam beaches kind of Turkey this was cold wet mountainous Turkey in an area called capidocia and So yeah, I was about six years old and here's a couple of great little photos just for reference.
There we go might bring that haircut back and
Anyway, so we're driving through, you can see it's quite a mountain stair, it's all very snowy, driving down this road that hasn't had any traffic along it for probably a few hours, haven't seen any cars anywhere at all.
My dad wants to pull over by the side of the road to take a photo, and we've got the people that we've gone to visit travelling with us in the car, and they say, oh, don't pull over to the side, you'll get stuck.
Now, you think that if the people who are native to that country are saying this to you, that you might follow through with that, but he obviously felt the need to find this out for himself.
He pulls over to the side of the road and we go, and what?
Yeah, I know, right?
The great gasp.
And the snow, and the beautiful kind of snow cover thing, actually, there is a massive ditch that we're into by about two foot in the side of the cart, and there is absolutely no way that we are getting out.
I mean, I was about six years old at this point, so I don't remember being especially concerned.
I remember we had one Mars bar between us as a family in the car, which I promptly ate, and I spent most of my time throwing snowballs, and I wasn't particularly concerned.
But it was quite a concerning situation that we were in.
We were stranded in the middle of nowhere.
Mobile phones weren't a thing at this time, and to be honest, even if they were, I don't know who we would have called.
Hadn't seen any traffic gone through for several hours, and actually
it started to get a bit hairy and I think the adults in the group started to panic.
And it must have been about four hours that we were there.
You know the point where you start to just get really cold.
Like we're actually, all cold just sets in, doesn't matter what you've got with you.
So let's get really, really cold.
And then a car came past, thank goodness, and a winch and a set of snow chains later and we were out and on the way and thankfully all was well.
And apart from the opportunity to show off
That great haircut.
Why am I telling you all of this?
Well, if my dad had listened to some guidance in the first place, if he had trusted the wisdom of what he was being told, then we'd all have been shared from this very shivery experience.
And in the same vein, if I could trust that the plate was hot or that the wall was wet, if I could trust what I was being told, rather than having to find it all out for my own good, then maybe I'd have been spared some painty hands and some burned fingers.
Because when we doubt God, and when we doubt His leading and His goodness and His plans for us, it's all too easy to head off in our own direction and end up in a ditch.
So here we are talking about lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
See, I think at least for me, I need God to guide me away from my temptations and my bad decisions.
And when I inevitably don't listen and I decide that I want to go my own way,
Thankfully, he is there to winch me out again.
And it's funny, because I've actually spoken to a number of people about this message from the last couple of weeks, and I've told them that I'm preaching on this, and everyone's having the same reaction where they've gone, oh, I'm really excited to hear that.
Please don't point at me and use me as an example.
Because you might not be one of those people that has to touch the wet pain or the hot plate, but temptation is something that is universal.
And the problem is that most of the time, we know the difference between right and wrong.
We know what's tempting us, and we know to stay away from it.
But it's just so enticing.
We just can't help it.
And Paul, I think Paul sums it up really well in Romans 7 when he says this.
He says, I do not understand what I do.
For what I want to do, I do not do.
But what I hate, I do.
For I have the desire to do what is good, but I cannot carry it out.
For I do not do the good thing I want to do.
But the evil I do not want to do, this I keep on doing.
And I think this is one of those things that we're never gonna totally nail this side of eternity.
But if the Lord's Prayer is a blueprint for how we pray, then I think this last time is this blueprint for how we deal with temptation and when we inevitably get it wrong.
And so I wanna break it down into three sections for us this morning and then just have three questions that I'd really like us to take away.
Because, to begin with, I'd say it's a bit confusing because it's the wrong way round.
lead us not into temptation.
It's got the negative in the middle, and we don't really talk like that anymore.
I don't say take not the A12 this morning due to traffic.
It doesn't sound quite right.
I mean, we've been doing some decorating recently.
If I woke up to Amy and I said, send me not to be in queue anymore, for I am weary.
She's going to look at me like I'm even weirder than usual.
But so if I were writing it, I'd probably say, please don't lead me into temptation, God.
or don't let me be tempted.
And the meaning would probably be the same, but the active emphasis would be changed.
And I think that order is really helpful in approaching the rest of this verse with the intended posture, which is where the first thing that we say is lead us.
Now, many of you, I'm sure, will have
had a dog or have a dog and obviously they come with certain things dogs need and they need to be walked and one thing or another and you've probably seen people they take their dog for a walk and it's primarily for the dog's benefit right like that's why you're walking your dog and about two thirds of the way around the walk the dog decides they aren't going any further
And they just kind of starfish on the pavement a little bit like this.
Anybody who has a dog, I feel like, has probably experienced this.
And you see people there.
If you don't have a dog yourself, you see people there.
And they try and coax the dog.
And then they try and encourage the dog.
And then they kind of just gently pull on it.
And before you know it, you're dragging the dog along the pavement.
And that's not really where you want to be.
And so eventually what they do is they give up, they pick the dog up, and they continue walking.
At which point,
you're not walking your dog, you're just acting like a tour bus and giving your dog a guided tour of your local area and it becomes completely pointless.
But my point is this, is you can't lead something that doesn't want to be led.
God doesn't carry us or drag us not into temptation.
He leads us, not into temptation.
But he can only do that if we allow ourselves to be led.
Lead us God.
lead us not into temptation.
Because it sets right from the off.
Our stance and our posture is one that should allow God to lead us.
If we're called to be His disciples, that is, if we're called to be people who follow Jesus, then we need to be willing to allow Him to lead us.
Otherwise, we're just going to be wandering off into trouble.
I can't just say, God, I'm going to go in my own way.
I'm going to deliberately wander towards temptation.
But lead me.
Don't let me fall into temptation.
It doesn't work that way.
And again, if I was going to write this prayer in my ignorance, I probably would have written it differently.
It would make, I would have written it as God, give me more willpower.
Give me the strength to resist temptation.
God, help me be stronger and to make better decisions.
But then I think I'd be missing the point of what this verse is trying to bring out in me.
Because where everything within me wants to say God, give me more control.
Jesus teaches us that avoiding temptation is about taking a posture that says, God, you take more control.
Because I think in my mind's eye, I've been imagining temptation as something kind of like two paths.
It's like a this way or that way.
One is the path of temptation and the other is kind of temptation-free path.
And I've somehow been asking God to help me choose the right path.
But that's not
what leading looks like.
That's more like directing or, I don't know, orienteering.
And that's not what life looks like either.
I'm sure everybody in this room can attest to the fact that it doesn't matter how good you are, how long you have been a Christian for.
Temptation is there, whatever path we choose.
There is no way around it.
Every road has temptation and traps and pitfalls.
And so rather than be our map showing us the temptation for a road to take,
Jesus is the shepherd who leads us safely down the road without falling into temptation's traps.
And it's that Psalm 23 posture that says, the Lord is my shepherd.
I lack nothing.
He makes me lie down in green pastures.
He leads me beside quiet waters.
He refreshes my soul.
He guides me along the right paths for his namesake.
And even though I walk through the darkest valley, I will fear no evil for you are with me.
And it's been spoken from here before, and Pete did a really good message a little while back on sheep.
And the idea that the biblical shepherd is not like modern shepherds as we think of it.
So we're not Clarkson's farm, it's not kind of quad bikes and sheep dogs, and sitting in the back and chasing them to sheep forwards.
But the biblical shepherd is one that leads from the front.
The sheep follow the shepherd's footsteps, because they know that he leads and guides them to safety.
And there's nothing that drives the sheep forward except the trust to follow the shepherd.
and his footsteps and his voice.
Because, Church, we don't have a hope of avoiding temptation if we aren't first able to learn to follow the shepherd.
And that means taking time to listen, to learn, to hear his voice.
It means, as I'm sure many of us have done in the past, I definitely have, not just deciding a direction and then asking God to bless it and to rub a stamp it, but really seeking his will for our life and the choices.
Sometimes it means slowing down and walking behind him when everything in us wants to run ahead.
Have you ever felt like that?
And I get it.
Life is busy and we have things that we want to do.
And if I know that I need to get somewhere and there's an endpoint, then I want to get there as quickly as possible so that I can get onto the new thing.
I don't want to be led.
I don't want to move at God's pace.
I want to move at my pace and the pace that I feel like I'm ready for.
But maybe God is asking us to slow down this morning.
and to follow him so that he can lead us there safely in his timing and not fall into every single ditch along the way.
Because sometimes the ditches themselves aren't the issue.
It's just that I won't allow myself to be led around them.
I don't want my need for control to cause me to end up in a ditch because I want to be someone who allows Jesus to lead me.
And we know, this is the thing we know, and I love this about Jesus, that he gets it.
He gets what we're going through.
He gets that we're going through temptation because he lived it, right?
And we read in Matthew 4, Jesus was led by the spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil.
And that was right before basically one chapter before he praised this prayer with his disciples.
He was led.
He was tempted.
And he overcame temptation.
And ultimately, he overcame sin and death.
And church, if someone's going to lead me somewhere, I want to know that they've walked that before me, right?
I want to know that they've walked that road themselves.
Well, Jesus has walked the road of temptation and Jesus has the authority to lead us through it.
And we can trust him to lead us through it, not just because he's God and he knows everything, but because he's actually walked it before we did.
So can we allow ourselves to be led by him this morning?
But let's say we can.
Let's say, you know what?
Jesus, you are leading us.
Where are we being led in this verse?
Lead us not into temptation.
Because the implication there sounds like God might lead us into temptation, right?
Unless we ask Him to.
If I have to pray, God don't lead me into temptation.
Does that mean that He might lead me into temptation?
If I don't pray that.
And the Bible, thankfully, is very clear that God does not tempt us.
He's not.
leading us into temptations we think might think of it.
He doesn't try and trick us.
He doesn't try and entice us into sin.
And with this verse from James 1 that says, verse 13, it says, When tempted, no one should say God is tempting me.
For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anyone.
But each person is tempted when they are dragged away by their own evil desire and enticed.
Then after desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin.
And sin, when full grown, gives birth to death.
OK, but if God doesn't tempt us, surely he wouldn't lead us into temptation either.
So how do we square these two verses with one another?
Because it seems like Jesus and James contradicting each other in what they say.
Well, the word that's used here for temptation has two meanings.
And it's this, I'm going to butcher the pronunciation.
You can read it.
Perasmos, let's go with that.
Can mean temptation as we now think
So it's this kind of encouragement or enticement into sin, but also it can mean testing.
Testing in a positive sense, something that refines, something that encourages growth and produces loyalty and the situation of pressure where our faithfulness is revealed.
And we said it just a few moments ago in chapter four that Jesus was led by the spirit into the desert to be tempted by the devil.
The spirit led
and the devil tempted.
God tests us in order to refine us, in order for us to grow in our faith and in our faithfulness.
But Satan tempts us, not for our good, but so that we might fall away from God.
And whilst it might not feel like it a lot of the time, we are told that testing is a good
So James 1 says, consider it pure joy in my brothers and sisters whenever you face trials of many kinds.
Because you know that testing of your faith produces perseverance.
But within testing, we want to take shortcuts.
We can be susceptible to take the easy way out, right?
And to fall into sin.
And if you're feeling like this is a slightly odd concept, you're not alone.
And I feel like this as well is kind of testing from God.
So I find it helpful to imagine it like this.
Most people here will have taken an exam at some point.
And whilst we may not like them, and I'm sure most of us here wouldn't choose to take exams unless we had to, they do unfortunately serve an important purpose.
Because nothing really forces you to learn quite like the pressure of an exam.
Maybe some of you are really good at exams, maybe you're really good at being prepared, any of those kind of people, you have your revision timetable as it's all planned out months in advance and all that stuff.
I was a Kramer, for exams, and I always have been, unfortunately, staying up until three o'clock in the morning, trying to force as much knowledge into my head as possible ahead of whatever exam it is the next day, and then it just goes as soon as you're done with it.
A few people nodding in agreement.
But regardless, regardless of how we deal with them, exams are a powerful motivator to learn.
And passing an exam comes with some kind of positive, whether it's a reinforcing of knowledge, or a skill, or a qualification,
And whilst it might not feel particularly fun or enjoyable in the moment, ultimately it is something that is for a purpose.
But with the pressure of an exam comes the fear of failing and the burning desire and the temptation to cheat.
And if you've ever taken an exam, I'm sure you have felt that temptation at some point.
To cut corners, to make it a little bit easier and just to stack the deck so it works in your favour.
to copy off the person next to you or to write answers in the gaps between your fingers, to roll up some paper and put it inside your tie so you can kind of just slip it out for the exam or scratch it on the back of your calculator with a compass if anyone has ever done that.
some shocked faces.
I've never did any of these things when I was at school.
But I saw bad people doing it.
I'm really glad the youth on in this week.
I was meant to do this last week.
I'm really glad something that you threw out this week.
So yeah, probably for the best.
Testing reveals strengths and weaknesses.
Things that maybe we thought we knew, but in fact we have still to learn.
Temptation encourages us to cheat on the exam, to take a shortcut and do something that we know is wrong.
And the notion of Israel, as they were hearing this, kind of the disciples hearing the shed, they would have understood this cycle of testing and temptation.
And the Torah, so the first part of the Old Testament that they all would have known, carries these cycles of tests and temptation over and over again.
And we'll know some of them fairly well.
So right at the beginning, we see God places Adam and Eve in a garden.
And it's a place of incredible blessing.
And he says, you can eat from any tree except this one.
Because if you eat from this tree, you'll die.
And I don't know about you, but until I was writing this message, I'd never actually stopped to ask, why was there a tree in the first place?
Why put the tree there to begin with?
Surely it's just going to be a temptation.
And I'm sure we can all empathize with that feeling.
In a place of being told, you can have anything you want except that one thing
that we all want that one thing, right?
It's such a natural human thing to want the one thing that we're told that we can't have.
But in choosing not to eat from the tree, they are constantly building their trust in God and in God's definition of good and evil rather than their own.
And then we know the story as it goes, temptation comes in the form of a snake and twists God's words.
And ultimately, it does what all temptation does, which is the only trick that temptation really has, which is to suggest that God is not good.
Because if God is good, why wouldn't we trust Him?
But if God isn't good, maybe if God's a liar, maybe He doesn't know what's best for us.
Maybe He doesn't want what's best for us.
Maybe we're better off doing things on our own.
Well, then God is not to be trusted.
And it is this lie from the serpent that says, did God really say?
And then lies give way to doubts and mistrust.
Did God really say?
Did God really say not to eat from the fruit?
And then they're empowered by their own desires and the need for control.
And they choose not to follow God.
And the blessing of Eden gives way to brokenness.
but God is good, God restores them, and he clothes them, and he promises that one day a deliverer will come, and the cycle of testing and temptation begins again.
And then a bit later, Abraham is tested by God.
So trust me, God says, you will have a son in your older age, but decades go by and it hasn't happened.
And Abraham and Sarah, doubting that God is really good, decide to take a shortcut and take matters into their own.
hands, temptation comes.
And temptation says that God isn't good, that he's broken his promise, that that thing that he said to you is gone.
He can't be trusted, so you need to make things the way that you want them to be.
And rather than wait for God to make good on his promise, Abraham has a baby with his wife, servant, Hagar, and it creates a pain and a division beyond what they can imagine.
But even in that,
church even in that God doesn't abandon them.
He is still faithful and he still keeps his promises and Sarah does give birth to a son and God delivers and restores and the cycle begins again.
Because tests from God are designed to lead us into growth and blessing but they are always twisted by the enemy into temptation.
And it all comes back to that first lie
that tells us in the moments that are hard, in the moments when we're struggling, that God is not good.
Because if we believe God is good, then we know that we can trust Him to lead us.
And we know that where He's led us, He won't abandon us.
That He hasn't forgotten us, and He hasn't forgotten you.
But then you might rightly ask if we're all talking about lead us not to dissemptation,
Why pray against a good thing?
If I'm standing up here telling you that God leads us into tests and tests build faith and that Satan is tempting us, why would we pray lead us not into temptation?
Surely we would be yearning for God's testing to greater build our faith in him.
Well, there's two problems with that.
Firstly, anyone who's ever been tested knows that it's probably not something that we particularly yearn for or should particularly want.
But let's think about it like this.
So for those of you who've done it, you'll probably remember taking your driving test.
And all the things you have to learn, you have to do things in a very specific way.
And you have to really overdo it, don't you?
Sit there and you go mirror.
Signal.
Forgot what you're trying to drive with.
And then maneuver and go around.
And you have to really overemphasize it.
Now, we should all drive safely.
And I'm sure you're all excellent drivers.
But let's all be honest here for a second.
If you have a driving license in the room, if you've taken a driving test and you have a driving license, I'd like you to stand up for me if that's OK, just for a moment, if you're able to.
OK, now, if I took you outside to where the test center used to be and asked you to retake your driving test right now, if you think you'd still pass, stay standing.
And if you think you'd fail, sit down.
OK, I'm actually very impressed.
Here we go, we have the safe drivers in the room are still standing and the unsafe driver.
People you don't want to get a lift to church with are sitting down.
Thanks very much everybody, you can sit down.
I don't think I would pass my driving test if I took it today.
And I asked this question once.
I asked this question to a group of about 400 doctors and nurses.
And I said, who here would pass your final exams that you took that allowed you to qualify to do what you do if you took it now?
And every single person sat down.
And it was a bit concerning.
But it does make my point.
Do I recognize that tests are important in my life?
Driving tests, exams, and so on?
Do I recognize that they serve a purpose?
and that they are for my benefit, yes, of course I do.
Do I believe that God's tests will help me grow in perseverance and help me grow spiritually?
Yes, I do.
Do I recognize that in life tests and temptations are inevitable?
But knowing what I know about myself and my current limitations and my own struggles with temptation, if I look inside my heart, would I really be wise to ask God to test me?
Because this part of the Lord's prayer recognizes our own weakness, recognizes that we need humility in order to submit to God's will.
Because the opposite of this would be saying, test me God.
I've got this.
Put me to the test.
I'm going to nail it.
Bring it on.
And it would be very silly of me to do that.
And we remember that Peter says to Jesus before Jesus has arrested.
He says, even if all of these fall away from you, I never will.
I'll never desert you.
I will never deny you.
And of course, we know exactly what happens.
Peter denies Jesus three times just as Jesus predicted that he would and the rooster crows.
And he realizes that he couldn't live up to what he said he was going to do.
Lead us not into temptation brings us humbly before a God who loves us and says, God, I know, I know that I'm weaker than I think I am.
If I can be spared testing,
Please let me be spared, but ultimately lead me where you want me to go.
Because even Jesus, even Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane, knowing what was going to come, cried out to God, and he said, Father, if it is possible, let this cup be taken from me, but not my will, but yours.
But so what?
What can we take from this?
How does this help us?
Well, it helped me, I think, in a few ways.
Firstly, I know that tests and trials are going to come, but I'm going to continue to pray, lead me not into temptation.
God, anything I can be spared, please spare me.
Anywhere I can avoid having to be tested and I can grow in other ways, please, please, please help me with that.
Direct me away from everything
that I don't absolutely have to go through and very much direct me away from problems and troubles and temptations of my own making.
But if Jesus can pray to have these things taken away, then absolutely we can pray and cry out to God for healing, for restoration, for an end to the things that we're struggling with, for things to be easier, for battles to come to an end, absolutely we can pray for all of those things.
But we know that those prayers aren't always answered, or at least not in the way or in the timeframe that we might want them to be or think that they should be.
And that's hard.
And I wish that I had an easy answer as to why it is that way.
But I don't because sometimes it is just hard.
But I do know that when I'm going through those things, that I can start to recognize the lie that has me question if God is still good.
if he still loves me, if he still cares for me, if he still has my very best in mind.
Because we can take heart from that and know that it's true and that anything that comes against that is a lie from the enemy that tries to draw me into temptation and to take shortcuts.
I can be on my guard so that when the going gets tough and I'm tempted to do things my way, when I'm tempted to take a shortcut into sin,
rather than trusting that my Heavenly Father is working for my best.
And we all have moments like that.
It's the moment where I've screwed up at work and I need to mess up.
I need to say what I've done.
But temptation says you could blame somebody else.
You could hide it.
No one knows.
It's the moment where money is tight and I could cut corners.
I could not declare payments in cash maybe.
or maybe I just ignore God's call to be generous because it feels unsafe.
It's the moment where I come home at the end of a stressful day, at the end of a stressful week, and no one's looking, and what I choose, or what I do, or what I consume, are they things that build me up, or are they things that tear me down?
Because so often temptation is something that whispers to us when no one else is watching.
And so forewarned here is forearmed.
We can be on our guard against temptation when we know is coming.
It is coming.
And we know that Jesus has walked through temptation with us, and he will lead us through those temptations as well.
But the reality is that we have all got this wrong at some point.
We've all got this wrong somewhere.
I've got this wrong in so many places.
We've wandered off the path of following
God at some point, and we've ended up, like we did in that car in Turkey, we've ended up in a big old ditch.
But that doesn't mean that we have to stay there, praise God.
Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
And that word deliver us, it has such power.
And it's translated as well, it could be help us, rescue us, save us.
And I think this petition, this cry out to God for help, is the ending of this prayer
as Jesus teaches it, because it really does remind us of our dependence on God.
Because if we finish the prayer with, give us our daily bread, or we forgive those who sin against us, we might be tempted to believe that somehow it's up to us, that we can handle life's trials and temptations on our own.
So at Shul God, we've prayed that prayer, off we go, and we'll see you at the finish line.
But instead, we're reminded that we absolutely can't do it.
on our own.
It's an acknowledgement that everything we've just prayed for up to this point that we're going to get wrong.
That will fall short.
But we know we don't have a God who abandons us but a God who rescues us and a God who delivers us.
Because God isn't out there like some cosmic invigilator at an exam.
He isn't setting up traps for us or being disappointed in our struggles or watching to see where we fall.
He is our Father in heaven.
He is the good shepherd.
And time and time again, we see that when Israel faltered, God's promises still held.
God did send Jesus to rescue us from what was lost in Eden.
He did deliver the Israelites from slavery in Egypt to freedom in the promised land.
Abraham and Sarah did have a son an old age.
And whatever evil we have fallen into, he can and he will deliver us from as well.
And I know this because there are so many stories of this right here in this room that we can hold on to because our God is always faithful.
When my following goes astray, when I decide not to listen to his guidance, when I wander off and drive into a ditch, he comes right there to winch me out and rejoices that I am back.
How do I know?
Well, when Jesus told them this parable, suppose one of you has a hundred sheep
and loses one of them.
Doesn't he leave the 99 in the open country and go after the lost sheep until he finds it?
And when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders and goes home.
Then he calls his friends and neighbours together and says, Rejoice with me for I have found my lost sheep.
Church, when we fall in a ditch, the Lord pursues us.
He's seeking us.
He's not
abandoned us in order to be with everybody else.
He's there.
He looks for us with everything else to pull us out.
So maybe this morning you are in that place of feeling like you want to go your own way.
Don't want to be led.
Maybe there's a particular decision you don't want to be led in.
Maybe it's just life in general.
Can I encourage you that God isn't going to force you to be led by him?
But whatever road we choose to go down,
there will always be ditches and pitfalls.
Can I encourage you that God is good and that he wants to lead you around those if you'll let him?
Or maybe this morning you feel like you're somebody who's being tested.
You're walking through something that's hard and the valley is getting darker and the walls feel like they're closing in.
Can I encourage you to hold on to that truth that God is still good?
If you feel like you have lost that truth in life and that the shortcuts are looking all the more tempting, that the good shepherd is still there leading you through.
Or maybe you're in a ditch.
Maybe you're in a ditch this morning.
Maybe it's the kind of ditch that people warned you about and you've ended up there anyway.
First of all, we've all been there at one time or another.
You're not alone and you're not judged.
But more importantly, your heavenly father is pursuing you.
He wants to deliver you.
He wants to rescue you.
He wants to pull you out of that ditch.
And it's not to school you or to touch at you.
It's to rejoice with you because we are all sheep in the ditch and he can set us on the path of righteousness again, if we will allow ourselves to trust and come back to him.
And so we pray lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
We stand with me church as we pray.
And in the moments where we haven't allowed you to lead us, and we've gone our own way, that you don't just abandon us, that you follow us, and that you are right there with us.
And that I pray for wherever our hearts have been stubborn, wherever we have decided we want to go our own way,
or wherever we've decided, actually, we don't want to turn around.
We're stubbornly remaining in that ditch.
Lord, I pray that Your hand would just come and reach out to each one of us this morning.
Lord, that Your Spirit would guide us.
That it would guide our hearts back to You.
Lord, whether it's fear of condemnation or fear of rejection, we just push that aside in Jesus' name.
We'll be thankful that You understand temptation, that You have lived
temptation and that you overcame temptation, Lord.
Let me take this moment to re-acknowledge your authority as king over our lives.
A lot of me thank you that you are so, so good and that your promises endure forever.
In your mighty name.
Amen.
Thanks, Judge.